README.md, before:

# HTR2HPC

[![PyPI - Version](https://img.shields.io/pypi/v/htr2hpc.svg)](https://pypi.org/project/htr2hpc)
[![PyPI - Python Version](https://img.shields.io/pypi/pyversions/htr2hpc.svg)](https://pypi.org/project/htr2hpc)

This repo contains experimental code for customizing eScriptorium.


-----

## Table of Contents

- [Installation](#installation)
- [License](#license)

## Installation

Install from github:

```console
pip install git+https://github.com/Princeton-CDH/htr2hpc.git@main#egg=htr2hpc
```

### CAS authentication

`pucas` is a dependency of this package and will be automatically installed when you install this package.

1. Import htr2hpc settings into local settings. It must be imported *after* escriptorium settings.
This will add the necessary CAS applications to `INSTALLED_APPS` and sets `ROOT_URLCONF` to use the urls provided with this application.  Add configurations for CAS server url and PUCAS LDAP settings.

```python
from escriptorium.settings import *
from htr2hpc.settings import *

# CAS login configuration
CAS_SERVER_URL = "https://example.com/cas/"

PUCAS_LDAP.update(
    {
        "SERVERS": [
            "ldap2.example.com",
        ],
        "SEARCH_BASE": "",
        "SEARCH_FILTER": "(uid=%(user)s)",
        # other ldap attributes as needed
    }
)
```


## License

`htr2hpc` is distributed under the terms of the Apache 2 license.

Commit message:

Add more details to readme about setup and what's included

README.md, after:

# HTR2HPC

This repository is associated with the [HTR2HPC](https://cdh.princeton.edu/projects/bringing-htr-to-the-hpc/) research project sponsored by the Center for Digital Humanities at Princeton.
The project goal is integrating the [eScriptorium handwritten text recognition (HTR) software](https://gitlab.com/scripta/escriptorium) with high performance computing (HPC) clusters and task manage.

> [!WARNING]
> This is experimental code for local use and assessment.

-----

## Table of Contents

- [Installation](#installation)
- [License](#license)

## Installation and usage

This package can be installed directly from GitHub using `pip`:

```console
pip install git+https://github.com/Princeton-CDH/htr2hpc.git@main#egg=htr2hpc
```

[`pucas`](https://github.com/Princeton-CDH/django-pucas) is a dependency of this package and will be included when you install this package.

Import htr2hpc settings into the deployed escriptorium local settings. It must be imported *after* escriptorium settings so that overrides take precedence. 



```python
from escriptorium.settings import *
from htr2hpc.settings import *
```

This adjusts the settings as follows:
- Adds to `INSTALLED_APPS` and `AUTHENTICATION_BACKENDS` and provides a basic `PUCAS_LDAP` configuration to enable Princeton CAS authentication; configures `CAS_REDIRECT_URL` to use the escriptorium `LOGIN_REDIRECT_URL` configuration (currently the projects list page) and sets `CAS_IGNORE_REFERER = True` to avoid behavior where successful CAS login takes you back to the login page
- Sets `ROOT_URLCONF` to use `htr2hpc.urls`, which adds `pucas` url paths to the urls defined in `escriptorium.urls`
- Adds `htr2hpc/templates` directory first in the list of template directories, so that any templates in this application will take precedence over eScriptorium templates; currently used for customizing the login page to add Princeton CAS login

### Configure CAS authentication

To fully enable CAS, you must fill out configurations for CAS server url and PUCAS LDAP settings in the
local settings of your deployed application.

```python
from escriptorium.settings import *
from htr2hpc.settings import *

# CAS login configuration
CAS_SERVER_URL = "https://example.com/cas/"

PUCAS_LDAP.update(
    {
        "SERVERS": [
            "ldap2.example.com",
        ],
        "SEARCH_BASE": "",
        "SEARCH_FILTER": "(uid=%(user)s)",
        # other ldap attributes as needed
    }
)
```


## License

`htr2hpc` is distributed under the terms of the Apache 2 license.
